Sparks swirling around you, thousands of them, and a big shadow, darker than midnight. The sparks are trying to fill the shadow, and the shadow is trying to swallow the sparks. You are all tied together in something dangerous.
Egwene's part of it. You're in love with her. She loves you, too, but she's not for you, or you for her. Not the way you both want. When I look at her, I see the same as when I look at Mistress Alys. She won't refuse it.
A man — not Thom — juggling fire, and the White Tower.
A wolf, and a broken crown, and trees flowering all around Perrin.
A red eagle, an eye on a balance scale, a dagger with a ruby, a horn, and a laughing face.
A sword that isn't a sword, a golden crown of laurel leaves, a beggar's staff, you pouring water on sand, a bloody hand and white-hot iron, three women standing over a funeral bier with you on it, black rock wet with blood, lightning around you, some striking at you, some coming out of you. You and I will meet again.
She's part of it, right along with the rest of you...The sparks, Rand. She met Moiraine coming in, and there were sparks, with just the two of them. Yesterday I couldn't see sparks without at least three or four of you together, but today it's all sharper, and more furious. You're all in more danger today than yesterday. Since she came.
She will have to share her husband with two other women and she will be a queen. A severed hand, not hers.
A white flame and other things.
He will hurt someone to serve a greater good and not even notice.
Danger. You are all in some kind of danger. Or you will be, very soon...I think Liandrin has to come as much as the rest of you. The rest of us. I can see the danger around all of you more clearly, now.
I've read you, Egwene.... I see things I am sure link you to Rand, and Perrin, and Mat, and - yes, even Galad.
A man's ring of heavy gold floated above Nynaeve's head and above Elayne's, a red hot iron and an axe.
The Tinker woman is going to die. I saw her own face floating over her shoulder, covered in blood, eyes staring.
An Aielman in a cage. A Tuatha'an with a sword. A falcon and a hawk, perching on your shoulders. Both female, I think.
Streaks of dried blood had made his face a grim mask. He was going to be wounded on the day the Aes Sedai died. He was going to be hurt more than the blood told, hurt somehow deeper than wounds to his flesh...that bloody mask again. More: a sword floated above his head, and a banner waved behind it. The long-hilted sword, like those most Warders used, had a heron engraved on its slightly curved blade, symbol of a blademaster, and I could not say whether it belonged to Gawyn or threatened him. The banner bore Gawyn's sigil of the charging White Boar, but on a field of green rather than the red of Andor
A transparent mask of her own face, a screaming mask.
She was lying on the floor, naked. Aside from her being in only her skin, there was something odd about the image. I have no idea what it means.
Gawyn kneeling at Egwene's feet with his head bowed, and Gawyn breaking Egwene's neck, first one then the other, as if either could be the future. I have never seen that fluttering back and forth, as though not even the viewing could tell which would be the true future. Worse, I have a feeling near to certainty that it was what I had done this day that had turned Gawyn toward those two possibilities.
Rays of silver and blue flashed about her fiery hair, and a soft golden light; I could not say what it meant.
A silvery collar suddenly appeared, snug around the woman's neck, and as suddenly seemed to shatter. At least Edesina would escape somehow.
When Bryne came in, I had a viewing. An aura, and a bull ripping roses from around its neck and... None of it matters except the aura. I didn't really understand that, but more than anything else. If you want to stay alive, you had better stay close to him. If he stays close to you, you live. If he gets too far away, for too long, you are going to die. Both of you. I don't know why I should have seen anything about you in his aura, but you seemed like part of it.
Those three you brought with you (Marigan, Areina Nermasiv, and Nicola Treehill) are trouble.
Aes Sedai are going to hurt you. Women who can channel, anyway. It was all confused. I'm not sure about the Aes Sedai part. But it might happen more than once. I think that's why it seemed all scrambled.
When you two were together, I saw those fireflies and the darkness stronger than ever... But with the two of you in the same room, the fireflies were holding their own instead of being eaten faster than they can swarm, the way they do when you're alone. And there's something else I saw when you two were together. Twice he's going to have to be there, or you... If he's not, something bad will happen to you. Very bad. It will happen if he is not there, but nothing I saw said it won't because he is. It will be very bad, Rand.
You will have two daughters. Twins like mirrors.
"Maringil was going to die by poison. Colavaere would die by hanging. Meilan would die by the knife. The future carried a heavy toll for the High Lords of Tear. Aracome and Maraconn and Gueyam were all going to die too, bloody deaths, in battle.
I saw nothing of any use to you. Just a man in white who will make her fall head over heels.
Taim has blood in his past and blood in his future, but you could guess that. He's a very dangerous man.
I saw you and another man. I couldn't make out either face, but I knew one was you. You touched, and seemed to merge into one another, and....one of you dies, and one doesn't.
They will keep their word....I just saw these five in your hand.
A crown suddenly appeared on Darlin's head, a simple golden circlet with a slightly curved sword lying on its side above his brows. The king's crown he would wear one day, though of what country, I could not say. Tear had High Lords instead of a king.
....bruised hues so dark they seemed nearly black. "Don't trust that man Lady Caraline. He will murder anyone he thinks is in his way; he'll kill for a whim, kill anybody."
She was going to bond an Asha'man as a Warder!
Besides, those multitude of images and auras flashed by too quickly for her to make out any clearly, but I was certain they indicated more adventures than one woman could have in one lifetime. Strangely, some were connected to an ugly man who was older than me and others to an ugly man who was much younger, yet somehow I knew they were the same man.
Logain's aura still speaks of glory, stronger than ever. Maybe he still thinks he’s the real Dragon Reborn.
There's something... dark... in the images I saw around Lord Davram.
Flashes of light, darkness, shadow, signs of death, crowns, injuries, pain and hope.
The towering mountain was blasted out on one side, making a jagged hole down the slope. Dragonmount? It was cloaked in dark shadows, as if shaded by clouds high above.
An open cavern, gaping like a mouth. Bloodstained rocks. Two dead men on the ground, surrounded by ranks and ranks of Trollocs. A pipe with smoke curling from it.
I see sunlight around you. I see dark clouds, pushed away by the sunlight’s warmth. I see you, a brilliant white sword held in your hand, wielded against one of black, held by a faceless darkness. I see trees, growing green again, bearing fruit. I see a field, the crops healthy and full.
Let the Prince of the Morning sing to the land that green things will grow and the valleys give forth lambs.
I see the Two Rivers, Rand. I see an inn there with the mark of the Dragon’s Fang inlaid on its door. No longer be a symbol of darkness or hate. A sign of victory and hope.
I see a silver axe above that man's head. He will be a leader in the Last Battle. That woman there—the one sulking in the shadows—she will be trained by the White Tower and become Aes Sedai. I can see the Flame of Tar Valon beside her, and I know what it means. That man over there who looks like a simple street tough? He will save her life. I know he doesn’t look like it, but he will fight. All of them will. I can see it!
Ethenielle will soon be wed — I see that by white doves. The other two have various swords, shields and arrows hovering about them. Both will fight soon. It could be here, today.
A glowing sword, Callandor; being gripped in a black hand. Callandor, held in a fist. The hand looks to be made of onyx.
Tenobia has a spear hovering over her head. Bloody, but shining in the light.
I saw his body alone, on a field, as if dead.
Siuan...I saw an aura around Bryne that meant you had to stay together, or the two of you would die. It hangs above you, right now. Whatever you think you did, the viewing has not been accomplished yet. It's still there.